- fast forwards to the darkness
[Music]
[Applause]
welcome to slash forward the channel
will we provide summarization and
commentary on all your favorite popular
and obscure horror movies in this video
we're going to peer into the mind of 80s
crunch master frank and in ladder as we
examine his 1988 film brain damage
heading ladders known for being a
purveyor of fine horror themed
exploitation films and unlike most
low-budget shock films hendon latter
tends to frame his movies around an
underlying theme themes like New York as
dirty drugs are bad and so on you get
the idea I hope you haven't showered yet
because you're gonna need one after this
[Music]
we open on a credit sequence that pans
over a variety of ancient statues
vaguely indicating we'll be dealing with
some sort of mystical horror here this
transitions to an elderly man eagerly
awaited returning to his apartment he
was on an errand to locate a particular
type of meat the order was hard to fill
apparently because they find themselves
without the service of their normal
butcher and what they need is both
exotic and requires a certain level of
discretion it's a sack of brains I have
to say that the effects here are pretty
good as I find myself desiring to eat
those brains anyway the couple who are
later identified as the Ackerman's have
brought this special treat for someone
or something they refer to as Elmer we
don't initially find out what Elmer is
because Martha happily trots his treat
into the bathroom and finds it empty or
whatever he is apparently he takes his
snacks in the tub the two of them begin
to react in an unexpectedly insane
manner screaming and thrashing about as
though they're in physical pain from his
absence they must really love him we cut
to some feet sleeping the phone rings
and it's answered by Brian our
protagonist who's now in the process of
letting down his lady meanwhile the
Ackerman's yeah I'm just gonna call them
the elderly couple because Ackerman's
feels wrong is it Ackerman uh whatever
go into an extreme manic state and start
to destroy their apartment their search
methodology drives home their level of
madness they're looking in many small
type places so it's safe to assume
Ellmers a small pet like a sugar glider
or something but they also take things
out and destroy them when is clearly not
necessary how metal having destroyed
everything they own they're reduced to
convulsing on the floor of their
apartment Brian's girlfriend Barbara
shows up to see if he's asleep she
confirms that Brian looks like absolute
garbage so he's not just being a tool
he's actually sick back to the elderly
couple who have rallied after getting a
second wind and are now going door to
door costing their neighbors and barging
into their homes looking for over
Brian's girlfriend plans to nurse him
back to health but he insists she go to
the concert with his brother because the
money's spent in his bro deserves a
treat as they head off to the concert we
pan across the elderly couple's living
room revealing them quietly foaming on
the floor Brian's having his own
problems though tossing and turning in
his bed his discomfort appears to have
been the result of a herniated goiter
judging by the quantity of blood he
finds on his hand in bed going to the
bathroom to manage this situation he
finds a source of the blood to be the
back of his neck but the cause is still
unknown he goes ahead and verbalize as a
question already strongly implied
happening
before he can explore this further he
begins to have a reality altering
experience better than any concert so we
know he made a good choice he lies down
to go for a ride as his ceiling light
turns into a giant eyeball and a strange
blue liquid slowly begins to fill his
room and lap at his hand
it eventually engulfs him as he floats
off into oblivion sometime later he
wakes up feeling like a new man he seems
energized and rested he goes to check
his neck and finds that a bath has been
drawn I know there's someone else here
why would that be your first assumption
after significant sensory hallucinations
he also asks this as though he knows
he's dealing with a strange creature
some type unfortunately for our cynicism
we hear some odd creature sounds and
then see that something is slithering
around on his body previously undetected
we're then introduced to the creature we
come to know as Elmer who gives a little
how do glows and then speaks in the best
possible voice oh he hits the macaulay
culkin eyebrows and gives Bryan a hard
sell on a new life of pleasure in
euphoria with Elmer by his side by
making some strange allusions to what
this new life will consist of a life
Upton item we find out the deal heavily
favors Bryan he gets the light and all
he has to do is take Elmer for a walk
I'll do all your thinking for you trust
me Brian
trust me seems legit Elmer even pays up
front giving Bryan a prick before they
go in the walk we get a good close-up
that shows Elmer's methods and also
explaining the neck injury it ends with
the most extreme close-up possible
diving into Bryan's brain he lets the
blue goo wash over him in acquiescence
to Elmer's commands after they head off
Bryan's brother comes home with Barbara
and they start digging around like a new
couple interpreting this as a fit
opportunity Mike makes us move at this
exact moment it's unlikely Bryan would
even mind getting cuckolded by his
brother as he's occupied with running
around the city like a madman so high
that he sees colors and hears sounds the
euphoria even allows him to enjoy the
simple pleasure of a nighttime salvage
yard rave yeah it's not that great with
Bryan bouncing around and screaming it
doesn't take long for the yard security
guard to be alerted the security guard
takes his job very seriously and gives
no quarter as he slowly dons his cap and
prepares himself for a first-degree
murder
Bryan continues his tour as the guard
pursues him like the Terminator
eventually catching up with him Bryan
calmly and rationally explains the
situation to him but the guard doesn't
appreciate hippie talk and offers up a
reasonable counter argument but the [ __ ]
up [ __ ] the guard follows textbook
procedure securing Bryan and checking
him for weapons and contraband
he feels something on him and wonders
what it may be and then finds now when
elmer jumps out and bores directly into
his frontal lobe an unfortunate
situation because this man clearly
already had impulse control problems
these concerns are inconsequential
however because this gentleman ends up
dead elmer takes his time savoring his
sinewy meal and he just looks so damn
happy
brian fails to make it to the party is
he okay yeah Brian he's doing just fine
Brian gets juiced again and we now know
the elderly couple's full deal we're
given the impression that some time has
passed but are never sure exactly how
much we find Mike and Barbara discussing
Brian's odd behavior he doesn't go to
work er really ever leave the apartment
if he's got in the bathtub he's locked
in this room which is filled with pails
of water that he refreshes four times a
day they go to check on him he plays the
cool at first but then loses it when
Elmer playfully squirts him oh that does
look fun he manages to pull himself
together enough to go to dinner with
Barbara she insists on an explanation
for his odd behavior he goes off on a
manic grant that clearly implies his
addiction but doesn't specify to what he
tries to clarify that Elmer won't let
him as he tries his best to maintain he
begins to hallucinate his meatballs his
pulsating sighing brains I get bigger
and bigger unable to stand the sight he
makes a scene and runs off he finds
himself in an alley with some other lost
souls and as he's on the verge of being
overcome with despair
Elmer hits him again with that sweet
stuff straight to the brain once again
on that upward climb he slinks into the
subtly name--in Club he'll he's noticed
and approached by a woman who finds him
with his head in a PA speaker he's
probably gonna regret that when he gets
older they hit it off after she invites
him to join her on the dance floor and
he proceeds to woo her with the quirky
dance of insanity for which he provides
his own sound effects
[Music]
[Applause]
she mistakes his amorous nature as an
indicator that she's reeled him in when
in reality it likely doesn't even matter
to him that she's there
they take this increasingly sexy party
to the bathroom but choose a detour
since they don't want to wait behind the
line of lovely ladies patiently waiting
to dump out in small groups hey
sometimes you need a spotter now on the
roof or in an alley it's hard to tell
they're on the verge of experiencing
carnal pleasure when Elmer pops out to
make sure Brian doesn't cheat and takes
his evening meal in the scene that may
be too graphic or suggestive to show I
may be desensitized here but allegedly
some of the crew walked off the set and
discussed during filming so I'm gonna
use that as an indicator with that
crummy business done Brian heads home
Brian stops off in the courtyard of his
apartment complex to ditch his
blood-soaked undies and confirmed for us
that he's not fully aware of Ellmers
actions tonight and is then accosted by
mr. Ackerman appearing to have aged
significantly in the absence of Elmer's
juice he provides us some additional
context when he informs Brian that it's
dangerous to feed Elmer human brains he
then gives us the extended backstory
hinted at in the opening credits he
feels it's best to try and find a
balance with Elmer to maintain control
but Elmer is a natural leader he doesn't
want to be fed he wants to hunt mr.
Ackerman spends time on all of this
despite the fact that all he really
wants is to get Elmer back Brian
declines to hand him over however but
also realizes his own personal truth he
needs to break himself and regain
control of his impulses he leaves only
providing a minimal degree of
explanation that to anyone not watching
the movie makes absolutely no sense the
old man is right I've got to be in
control weird old man I've got to be in
charge Brian finds himself in a part of
town where people are free to do what
they like and no one asks questions his
motel room knocks him down about three
more levels of crunchiness as it appears
to rest at the outer rim of purgatory
Brian begins the process of seeking
answers but only receives a runaround
for Elmer who provides half-truths and
insinuations before dropping a truth
bomb on him will do anything I want us
to do they come to an understanding no
brains no juice it's time for a
protracted standoff Brian begins to show
signs of withdrawal almost immediately
as Elmer goats him hallucinating that
he's at the North Pole Brian attempts to
feed a baby penguin he then finds
himself pulling something from his ear
it ends up being a hallucination but
still it's pretty disturbing
Elmer appears to be getting along just
fine as Brian lies foaming on the floor
the situation becomes dire as Brian
begins to plead for the juice Elmer
responds by seeing an old-timey tune
what what's the kick
janna chicken the magic in June
it's just hose to driving home his
absolute dominance but what did charming
laugh Brian decides he's ready to give
himself fully to Elmer
he begins roaming the hallways looking
for an open door with a person behind
him he doesn't find a viable door but
hears the sound of running water it ends
up leading to the motels strange open
shared shower room a place he has
clearly never visited and that pushes
this place even closer to hell
Brian's greeted by a friendly gym rat
who uses bar soap on his hair new york
truly does have the most interesting
characters he quietly soaps away as
Elmer slithers in the water luckily for
him Elmer is looking for something a bit
more discreet he opted instead for a
gentleman in a stall dropping a deuce he
pops up in burrows into the guy's head
and were treated to a grungy bloody
bathroom sequence as the victim thrashes
around in desperation and tremendous
volume of blood sprays the walls having
now sealed their agreement in blood
Brian and Elmer head home Mike and
Barbara don't initially realize Brian's
present when they also return to the
apartment they've bonded from the stress
and anxiety of Brian's descent into
addiction Mike makes his final move and
it works the pier consummates their new
relationship while brian listens from
the other room he doesn't mind however
because he's overcome with juices Brian
begins tinting as he lies in bed
Elmer makes sweet sweet love to his
brain taking them on a ride to infinity
as he drifts off he dreams he's eating
brains in a moment of lucidity he
understands the danger in which he puts
his loved ones he tries to warn them but
his again speaking nonsense so he runs
off instead Barbara follows him to the
subway and observes his unusual behavior
as she watches him from afar he
elucidates that he's in a frank henan
latter movie strange recognized strange
and Duane runs off Barbara confronts
Brian and we soon learned that Elmer is
now occupying his throat when Barbara
tries to snap him out of it with a kiss
Elmer goes to work forcing Brian to take
part in the brain-eating as he leaves
the Train no one else seems to notice
anything wrong I wonder what we're
trying to say here Brian returns to his
favorite evidence disposal spot and
preemptively frisbees a trash can laid
into the darkness the elderly couple
manages to get the jump on and when they
spring forth from a different archway
this time and they came to party as they
demonstrate by brandishing a Luger they
Pat Brian down and find Elmer they
gently caress him rather than juicing
and bleeding to a predictable outcome
despite your prior relationship he does
not love you the gun slides over to
Brian
mr. Ackerman manages to extricate Elmer
as he laughs maniacally
but gets his brain now I'm done for his
efforts
Brian conflicted as a result of the
pandemonium slides Elmer onto his neck
so he has time to think while Elmer
makes everything all better
unfortunately and despite the extended
brain munching scene mr. Ackerman is
still alive he grabs Elmer and squeezes
as hard as he can resulting in an
overflow of juices rushing into Brian's
brain he crushes the life out of Elmer
in such a straightforward way it makes
you wonder how Elmer managed to live for
hundreds of years mr. Ackerman then
succumbs to his injuries
Brian's brain now severely
overstimulated begins to bulge out of
his skull which I can only imagine is
not very good Brian runs back to his
bedroom in attempts to pop the bubble
with a bullet breaking a gaping hole
through the front of his brainpan from
which he then emits a blinding light and
then we fade the black and that my
friends is what happens we do drugs or
commit yourself to a superficial life of
carnal pleasure or live in a seedy 1980s
air in New York City or something I
haven't quite sifted through all the
layers of this one yet honestly though
this is a fantastic gritty horror
exploitation film while I haven't seen
hidden ladders entire filmography it
looks like it moves quickly into extreme
campy comedy and then documentaries so I
feel confident saying this is likely the
best horror film he made it's certainly
an underappreciated gem for fans of 80s
horror having only just received an
updated blu-ray release in 2017 from
arrow video you should go check it out I
hope you enjoyed this video and thank
you for watching
[Music]
[Applause]